Title: I chose abortion, then changed my mind — California wants that choice gone

========================================

Restoration of America Foundation CEO Doug Truax is urging the Trump administration to end a Biden administration FDA policy that he says is driving around 500 abortions per day through mail-order prescriptions.

Those who support a woman’s right to choose should not be working to block that same woman from choosing differently when she has a change of heart. Abortion pill reversal saved my baby and the California attorney general is trying to hide this life-saving option from women.

He claims it’s dangerous.

I made the incredibly difficult decision to get an abortion because, at the time, I felt it was necessary. That, too, carried risks, and I accepted them because I thought I had no other option. When I learned about abortion pill reversal, I was given a second chance. The process I experienced was safe and effective. It’s just progesterone — the same hormone my own body produced to support my pregnancy — yet somehow, that is what they call "risky."

HAWLEY URGES DOJ PROBE INTO ABORTION PILL MAKER OVER SAFETY CONCERNS

It makes me question whether the concern is really about women at all, or for the power and politics involved.

My story started when I found myself pregnant after a brief reunion with my ex, Ben. He had already moved out, and our relationship was strained. I was overwhelmed by the thought of doing this on my own. At first, I was excited, but the doubts from others quickly crept in. Family and friends questioned whether I could handle it. I began to question it, too.

I chose to take the abortion pill, and immediately, I regretted it. That same day, I received a message from Ben telling me he wanted us to keep the baby. In that moment, everything shifted. I knew I had to try to stop what I had started. I searched frantically for help and found abortion pill reversal. Calling that number changed everything. It gave me an option I didn’t know existed, in the moment I needed it most.

With support from Ben and the pregnancy center staff who walked alongside us, I began the process. In the weeks that followed, I saw my baby on the screen during sonograms. I watched her grow. Ben and I began taking parenting classes together, and slowly, we started building something new, something stronger.

MISSOURI ATTORNEY GENERAL TAKES NEW LEGAL AIM AT MAIL-ORDER ABORTION PILLS OVER SAFETY CONCERNS

On January 18, 2024, I gave birth to our daughter, Evelyn.

That "problem" I was trying to solve is now two years old. She looks for me in every room she enters and finds comfort in my arms. She believes my kisses heal all boo-boos and she trusts me completely to keep her safe. That's why I defend abortion pill reversal.

Choosing reversal, choosing her, was the best decision of my life.

HAWLEY DEMANDS CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT OF ABORTION PILL AFTER FDA FAILS TO COMPLETE PROMISED SAFETY STUDY

This is not theoretical for me. This is real.

Abortion pill reversal gave me a second chance in a moment of desperation. It is a life-saving intervention. To stand against it feels no different than opposing something like CPR. We do not deny people a chance to live just because their lives are politically inconvenient or do not fit our narrative. We step in and help.

That is why I speak out. That is why I will continue to defend abortion pill reversal.

No woman should be denied the chance to change her mind. Calling that number and stopping the abortion I had started led to a series of events that led to what I consider the happiest years of my life so far.

CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP

It's our job as women — and as a society — to keep our children safe. Motherhood is a God-given right for women. The attorney general shouldn't be able to take that from us.

My daughter, my family, and I are living proof of what that second chance can mean.

Elizabeth Barrett is an Abortion Pill Rescue Network client and a stay-at-home mother living in Northern California with her fiancé and two children.
