Title: What UNC feeds its football players in the Bill Belichick era

========================================

UNC football head coach Bill Belichick and head chef Joshua Grimes spoke to Fox News Digital about how they get a competitive advantage in the team lunchroom.

Not all college football players are excited to eat their vegetables. But Bill Belichick's staff at North Carolina has found ways to make sure their players are.

Through precise food science that requires chopping vegetables into "micro" pieces or even sneaking extra grains and vitamins into the batter used to fry chicken, the staff is taking every liberty to gain a competitive advantage in the lunchroom.

UNC's nutrition, hydration and training strategy has become more critical than ever as the team looks to make a second-year jump, and each player has a specific strategy curated for them and their biology.

CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM

The strategy even includes a contingency plan when the team is on the road, sometimes in locations where access to anything but fast food is limited.

Public records show the team spent $129,644 on vendors that classify as fast food or fast casual during the 2025 season, but head nutritionist Amber Rinestine-Ressa claimed there was a scientific method behind those transactions.

Head coach Bill Belichick of the North Carolina Tar Heels watches from the sideline during the first half against the TCU Horned Frogs at Kenan Stadium in Chapel Hill, N.C., on Sept. 1, 2025. (Jared C. Tilton/Getty Images)

UNC football head chef Josh Grimes was the New England Patriots executive chef under Belichick from 2018-24. When they arrived at UNC last year, they recalibrated the nutrition strategy, an NFL-style approach, and Belichick says it is aligned with the fundamental purposes of Tom Brady's approach to nutrition.

"In New England, we had a lot of components and certainly some of Tom's things were important," Belichick told Fox News Digital.

"In the NFL, we trained a lot of players who were significantly older than our players are here, and, so, some of the things that Tom did have more application than players who are older. But still, fundamentally, good nutrition, good hydrations, pliability in the muscle tissues and so forth are fundamentally good things that Tom worked with and that we embrace as well."

For UNC and its players, the strategy may also have NFL Draft implications.

"When you look at an NFL performance, everything's important. And everything that leads to your performance is important. So, preparation training, nutrition, hydration, technique, fundamentals, it all adds up," Belichick said.

Rinestine-Ressa and Grimes aim to make food that players actually want to eat to keep them eating in the team cafeteria and not out. To do that, they prioritize flavor and work in the nutrition from there.

"If they're not going to change for me, I have to change my approach for each one of them," Rinestine-Ressa said.

"We don't live in a perfect world, and to create buy-in, I have to have a little leniency. … Eighty percent of our diet, we are eating great food for us."

Of the remaining 20%: "Would we rather eat brown rice or a piece of bread? Well, brown rice might have more fiber, but how does our whole day look? OK then, maybe we could eat this piece of bread."

BILL BELICHICK DOWNPLAYS HALL OF FAME CONTROVERSY, SAYS FOCUS REMAINS ON NORTH CAROLINA FOOTBALL

She admitted some players have a more difficult time eating their vegetables than others.

"Some of these kids come in, and they see a whole green bean, and not a canned green bean, and they're not receptive to it," she said. "A lot of guys come in here, and they have a very small box."

Once they work out what kind of food the players want, then come the "sneak" plays to make it as healthy as possible.

"Anywhere we can manipulate an ingredient to where it tastes good, but they don't know, we do," Grimes said.

The kitchen micro-dices vegetables into barely-noticeable pieces, and mixes them into several dishes, along with quinoa, to bolster the vitamin value.

The nutrition team even has a way of manipulating batter for deep-frying things like chicken, Grimes said, through a combination of whole wheat flour and avocado oil.

"We kind of use the fried stuff as more strategic, kind of morale. Like, we try to keep them happy," the chef said.

Grimes said he gave the players a suggestion box when building the menu, and the No. 1-selected suggested dish that came back was Oxtail. So, Oxtail has become a recurring favorite in the team café, and a critical play by the staff.

Famed Kansas City Chiefs former head dietitian Leslie Bonci employed similar strategies when curating a menu to keep the Chiefs healthy through the start of the Patrick Mahomes era and their first two Super Bowls in the last decade.

"Hide the health. Start with familiar and then amplify the nutrition for the intuition in the kitchen," Bonci told Fox News Digital in response to UNC's strategies.

The university's credit card statements for Rinestine-Ressa during the 2025 season and training camp (July 1 to Dec. 4), were obtained by Fox News Digital through a public records request.

Of the $129,644 spent on fast food or fast casual, the team spent the most money at Al's Burger Shack in the amount of $15,803.

"Al's Burgers, they use 90-10 meat with me," Rinestine-Ressa said, adding they often used the burger place for post-game meals last season for up to 260 people. "So, I can influence what they use because we're buying it in such quantity."

Chick-fil-A was second at $13,092.

"Chick-fil-A is only ever done when we're about to get on a plane, because it's heavy, they're about to go on a plane, they're about to sleep and we have no activity for the rest of that day. So, I don't really care that much."

Jersey Mike’s was third at $12,614, and Mission BBQ was fourth at $12,599. Other big spends on the statements were made at popular national chains like Zaxby’s, Moe's Southwest Grill, Dave's Hot Chicken, CAVA and Panera Bread.

Still, there were zero transactions for American fast-food staples McDonald's, Wendy's, Burger King, KFC or Taco Bell. That is where Rinestine-Ressa draws the line.

"Hell no, those are hard no's, because I can't manipulate those. I can manipulate every other place," she said.

CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP

As UNC looks to improve on its 4-8 record from 2025, it will lean on the creativity and discipline of its chefs and nutritionists to make sure the players are fueled to do their jobs.

Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter.

Jackson Thompson is a sports reporter for Fox News Digital covering critical political and cultural issues in sports, with an investigative lens. Jackson's reporting has been cited in federal government actions related to the enforcement of Title IX, and in legacy media outlets including The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Associated Press and ESPN.com.
